Short solutions to the problems of the INF102 exam on 6 December 2017.

1. * a: O(N^3), that is, cubical since there are three nested loops, and the inner loop
may have to be done each time if there is no triple summing up to 0
   * b: by first sorting the array and then replacing the inner loop by a simple logarithmic binary search
   * c: Four possible solutions of increasing speed (and increasing number of points!)
     - Cubical: replace `== 0` by `> 0s` in `existsThreeSumZero()`
     - O(N^2 log N): improve the cubical solution by first sorting and then replacing the 
inner loop by a suitable binary search (rank)
     - O(N log N): sort first and check whether the three largest sum up to a positive value
     - O(N): compute the three largest and check whether they sum up to a positive value: <http://github.com/marcbezem/INF102/blob/master/programs/oddsAndEnds/ExistsThreeSumPos.java>

2. * a: see quicksort in <http://github.com/marcbezem/INF102/blob/master/programs/sorting/quickSort/QuickSort.java>
   * b: O(N^2) behaviour occurs if the first pivot is the smallest argument, the second pivot the next smallests, and so on. This happens for instance if the pivot is a[lo] and the array is already sorted. (The method partition() is normally linear.)
   * c: A random shuffle of the array before sorting makes the worst case highly unlikely
   * d: A sorting algorithm is called stable if the order in which duplicate elements occur is the
same before and after sorting. The algorithm under a) is stable iff partition is stable (which it is normally not),
and the algortihm under c) is not stable because of the shuffling.

3. <http://github.com/marcbezem/INF102/blob/master/programs/searching/hashTable/LinearProbingHashST.java>

4. * a: 0 3 2 1 1 2 1
   * b: For the complete graph with k nodes, 
after popping 0 the nodes 1,...,k-1 will be pushed, 
after popping k-1 the nodes 1,...,k-2 will be pushed on top of the existing 1,...,k-2,
after popping k-2 the nodes 1,...,k-3 will be pushed, and so on.
This means the stack contains 
k-1 nodes after the first pushing round, 
2(k-2) nodes after the second round, and so on.
The high watermark of the stack size is ~(k/2)*(k/2) or O(k^2) or O(E).
(A less mathematical answer would also give many points here.)
   * c: The source of the stack inefficiency is that nodes are marked when popped from the stack.
A better algorithm marks nodes when pushed on the stack, thus avoiding duplicate nodes on the stack.
This is still correct and will in the end mark all nodes in the connected component. Therefore:
remove the line `marked[u]=true;` and add `marked[s]=true;` and `marked[v]=true;` to the
`stack.push()` statements. The output in the example becomes 0 3 2 1 and the stack will never contain more than V-1 nodes.


