Short solutions to the problems of the INF102 exam on 20 February 2017.

1. Cubic solution: ThreeSum, see book Ch. 1.4 (p. 173), replace == by !=. For O(N^2 log N) solution,
replace in ThreeSumFast, see book Ch. 1.4 (p. 190) the highlighted conditional by `if (... > j) cnt++;` by 
```java
int maybe = BinarySearch.rank(-a[i]-a[j],a);
if (maybe == -1) {cnt += N-j-1;} else {cnt += N-j-2;}
```

2. <http://github.com/marcbezem/INF102/blob/master/programs/sorting.priorityQueues.NaiveHeapSort.java>, O(N log N).

3. <http://github.com/marcbezem/INF102/blob/master/programs/TwoThreeTree.java>, method `max()`. Run-time analysis: the maximum is in the rightmost node. The tree is balanced means that all paths from the root to a leaf are equally long, and this length is then proportional to log(N). The worst case is to reach the rightmost leaf, which takes O(N) if the tree is leaning fully to the right, and O(log N) if the tree is balanced.

4. * a: An MST is a subgraph that is a tree (connected and N-1 edges if the graph has N nodes) with the sum of the weights of the edges minimal.
   * b: Kruskal's algorithm computes an MST by first sorting the edges on their weight, in increasing order. Then a Union-Find client is initialized with all the nodes of the graph. Thereafter N-1 edges are output (or put in a queue) by the following process:
      - take the lightest edge that has not yet been processed and call it e;
      - if the endpoints of e are not yet UF.connected, output e and UF.union its endpoints;
      - repeat until in total N-1 edges are output.
   * c: nodes 0,1,2,3, weighted edges (0,1,11),(0,2,12), (0,3,13), (1,2,14), (1,3,15), (2,3,16).
MST consists of the first three edges.

   There are many variations. Instead of sorting the edges a heap (MinPQ) can be used. 


